http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~farid/yearinreview03.html
3
<html>
<head>
<LINK REL=STYLESHEET  HREF="mystyle.css" TYPE="text/css">
<LINK REL="SHORTCUT ICON" HREF="icon/favicon.gif">

<title> Hany Farid: Image Science Group </title>
</head>
<body bgcolor=#EEEEEE link="#000066" vlink="#000066" alink="#000066">

<table align=center width=750>
<tr>
<td>

<p>
<b> Year in Review: 2003 </b>

<p>

The <a href="group.html">Image Science Group</a> has had a busy and
productive year.  The group now consists of a resident computer
graphics expert and animator, Lorie Loeb, four Ph.D. students (Kimo
Johnson, Siwei Lyu, Alin Popescu, and Hai Sun), and three
undergraduates (Joe Pechter, Will Pechter, and Tim Williamson).

<p>

Joe, Will and Tim are all primarily working with Lorie on some
exciting new projects at the crossroads of graphics, animation, and
vision.  The main emphasis of the rest of the group is in Digital
Forensics and Medical Imaging, with a smattering of other projects in
a variety of areas. As usual, more details can be found at
www.cs.dartmouth.edu/farid.

<p>

The lab recently purchased an 18 node (36 processor) Linux cluster -
each processor is a 3.06GHz Xeon chip with 2GB of memory. The cluster
is helping us with some heavy computational jobs consisting of
analyzing tens of thousands of images and audio files.

<p>

Sudikoff is building an extension to help the department with our
space shortage. We hope, by next summer, to move into a new 1000+
sq. ft. lab (more than twice the size of our current space).  And,
don't worry, I've already ordered the black paint.

<p>

Senthil Periaswamy defended his thesis this year (General-Purpose
Medical Image Registration), and is currently at Siemens, located
outside of Philadelphia.  It was hard to see Senthil leave, but he is
doing some exciting new work at Siemens.  Below are two papers
describing most of his thesis work:

<p>

	<dd> S. Periaswamy and H. Farid </dd>
	<dd> Elastic Registration in the Presence of Intensity Variations </dd>
	<dd> IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging, 22(7):865-874, 2003.  </dd>

<p>

	<dd> S. Periaswamy and H. Farid </dd>
        <dd> Elastic Registration with Partial Data </dd>
        <dd> Second International Workshop on Biomedical Image Registration, Philadelphia, PA, 2003. </dd>

<p>

Siwei Lyu has been doing some outstanding work in modeling and
understanding the statistics of natural images, and using those models
in several different digital forensic settings.  Here are some of the
most recent papers describing this work:

<p>

     <dd>S. Lyu and H. Farid </dd>
     <dd> How Realistic is Photorealistic? </dd>
     <dd> Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2004 </dd>

<p>

     <dd>S. Lyu and H. Farid </dd>
     <dd> Steganalysis Using Color Wavelet Statistics and One-Class Support Vector Machines </dd>
     <dd> SPIE Symposium on Electronic Imaging, San Jose, CA, 2004. </dd>

<p>

     <dd>H. Farid and S. Lyu </dd>
     <dd> Higher-order Wavelet Statistics and their Application to Digital Forensics</dd>
     <dd> IEEE Workshop on Statistical Analysis in Computer Vision (in conjunction with CVPR), Madison, Wisconsin, 2003 </dd>

<p>

Alin Popescu will be proposing his Ph.D. thesis early in 2004.  Alin
has been doing some pioneering work in the area of digital forensics,
with an emphasis in detecting local and specific forms of digital
tampering.  Here are some recent papers, not yet on the web page, but
should be there shortly:

<p>

       <dd>A.C. Popescu and H. Farid </dd>
       <dd> Statistical Tools for Digital Forensics </dd>
       <dd> 6th International Workshop on Information Hiding, 2004 </dd>

<p>

       <dd> A.C. Popescu and H. Farid </dd>
       <dd> Exposing Digital Forgeries by Traces of Re-sampling </dd>
       <dd> IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 2004 </dd>

<p>

Hai Sun has been doing some spectacular work in the area of
image-guided neurosurgery.  Hai is an MD/Ph.D. student and is
co-advised with Keith Paulsen at Thayer.  Hai has solved some very
hard problems to build a near real-time system for overlaying
pre-operative MR data with a surgeon's microscope view.  Hai will be
defending his thesis next year.  Below are some recent papers
describing his work from both the clinical and technical sides:

<p>

      <dd>H. Sun, D.W. Roberts, H. Farid, Z. Wu, A. Hartov, and K.D. Paulsen </dd>
      <dd> Cortical Surface Tracking Using a Stereoscopic Operating Microscope </dd>
      <dd> Neurosurgery, 2004 </dd>

<p>

      <dd>H. Sun, H. Farid, D.W. Roberts, K. Rick, A. Hartov, and K.D. Paulsen </dd>
      <dd> A Non-Contacting 3-D Digitizer for Use in Image-Guided Neurosurgery </dd>
      <dd> Steroetactic and Functional Neurosurgery, 2003 </dd>

<p>

      <dd>H. Sun, H. Farid, K. Rick, A. Hartov, D.W. Roberts, and K.D. Paulsen </dd>
      <dd> Estimating Cortical Surface Motion Using Stereopsis for Brain Deformation Models </dd>
      <dd> Medical Image Computing & Computer Assisted Intervention (MICCAI), Montreal, Canada, 2003 </dd>


<p>

Jethro Rothe-Kushel graduated and is currently in Mexico City working
on a series of short films based on the theme of Mexican rituals.
Jethro, for those of you who have not had the pleasure to meet him, is
a remarkable young man, and I expect that we will all be seeing some
great things from him in the years to come.

<p>

And finally, after 8 years of work, I and a co-author have completed a
paper that describes the (mathematically) proper way to compute
derivatives of discrete images/volumes/etc of arbitrary orders.  This
was a long fought battle, with many dead-ends, and frustrating starts
and finishes.  We had, on many occasions, given up hope that a
solution was possible, but earlier this year we had several
break-throughs and were happy to see the paper accepted:

<p>

      <dd>H. Farid and E.P. Simoncelli </dd>
      <dd> Differentiation of Discrete Multi-Dimensional Signals </dd>
      <dd> IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 2004</dd>

<p>

All of the above mentioned papers (and more) are available at:

<p>

     <dd><a href="http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/farid/publications">www.cs.dartmouth.edu/farid/publications</a>
 </dd>

</td>
</tr>
</table>

</body>
</html>
the rei